
# Norm Matloff's Farewell Address

On July 1, 2023, I will retire, after--incredibly--48 years on the
faculty of the University of California, Davis.

Just like George Washington, I will give this "Farewell Address."  It
certainly be historical like Washington's, and it's not really a true
farewell--I'll have an office, and intend to be active in research and
in writing books and software--but I hope some will find it interesting,
maybe surprising, and possibly useful.

I'll start with a brief overview of my history, then address issues in
teaching and research in computer science and statistics.

## How I  got here

I was born in Los Angeles, and grew up in East LA and the San Gabriel
Valley.  

I've lived in immigrant households my entire life, complete with
non-English languages.  My father was an immigrant from Lithuania, and
my parents spoke Yiddish to each other (but spoke English to us kids).
My wife is an immigrant from Hong Kong, and Cantonese is the "official
language" in our house, including with our daughter.

I attended Cal Poly Pomona as a Math major and an Econ minor.  I lived
at home, with a 10-minute drive to school, and had a part-time job on
campus.  Cal Poly was not a "powerhouse" school, but one could get an
excellent education if one sought out the right faculty.  I had one
professor for several Math classes who gave very challenging proofs for
homework, and also took the bulk of my Econ classes from one particular
professor, whom I still quote to this day.

I then joined the PhD program in Math at UCLA, eventually doing a
dissertation in abstract probability theory with the late Tom Liggett.
I described both Tom and my days at UCLA
[here](https://tinyurl.com/ynyarcye).

I had always wanted an academic career, preferably in California, and
was very pleased when the Math Dept. at UCD invited me for an interview.
It was my first-ever plane ride!


